---
title: "Combining a Regression Model with a Multivariate Markov Chain in a Forecasting Problem"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2014-06-mmc-for
date: 2014-06-01
venue: 'Statistics & Probability Letters'
---

Abstract: This paper proposes a new concept: the usage of Multivariate Markov Chains (MMC) as covariates. Our approach is based on the observation that we can treat possible categorical (or discrete) regressors, whose values are unknown in the forecast period, as an MMC in order to improve the forecast error of a certain dependent variable. Hence, we take advantage of the information about the past state interactions between the MMC categories to forecast the categorical (or discrete) regressors and improve the forecast of the actual dependent variable.


Cite:
  * MLA: Damásio, Bruno, and João Nicolau. "Combining a regression model with a multivariate Markov chain in a forecasting problem." Statistics & Probability Letters 90 (2014): 108-113.
  * APA: Damásio, B., & Nicolau, J. (2014). Combining a regression model with a multivariate Markov chain in a forecasting problem. Statistics & Probability Letters, 90, 108-113.
  * Chicago: Damásio, Bruno, and João Nicolau. "Combining a regression model with a multivariate Markov chain in a forecasting problem." Statistics & Probability Letters 90 (2014): 108-113.
  * Harvard: Damásio, B. and Nicolau, J., 2014. Combining a regression model with a multivariate Markov chain in a forecasting problem. Statistics & Probability Letters, 90, pp.108-113.
  * Vancouver: Damásio B, Nicolau J. Combining a regression model with a multivariate Markov chain in a forecasting problem. Statistics & Probability Letters. 2014 Jul 1;90:108-13.


[Link here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0167715214001199?casa_token=qpb7-KsQfxoAAAAA:okthcVZlQ3OZrUnaE8V3WIg3Sm2pFxic3wZzbL66y5x19epuRS_tvIO8lBIDjT_w_iUsw5FSqZo)

[Download paper here](http://lucasadoims.github.io/files/2014-06-mmc-for.pdf)


