---
title: "Reverse FDI in Europe: An Analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2014-04-fdi
date: 2014-04-01
venue: 'African Development Review'
---

Abstract: This paper analyses foreign direct investment (FDI) of Angola in Portugal. The reverse investment of African countries in Europe is a recent economic event that needs to be analysed, theoretically explained and empirically tested. A dynamic theoretical model is presented and a Bayesian model tests the model validating it. The results reveal that imports and corruption increase Angola FDI in Portugal. Some variables affect negatively Angola FDI in Portugal such as lagged Angola FDI, signifying an autoregressive negative effect in Portugal; the Portuguese official development assistance (ODA) to Angola, which are direct transfers from Portugal to Angola; and Angola's GDP. Policy implications are discussed.


Cite:
  * MLA: Barros, Carlos Pestana, Bruno Damásio, and João Ricardo Faria. "Reverse FDI in Europe: an analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal." African Development Review 26.1 (2014): 160-171.
  * APA: Barros, C. P., Damásio, B., & Faria, J. R. (2014). Reverse FDI in Europe: an analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal. African Development Review, 26(1), 160-171.
  * Chicago: Barros, Carlos Pestana, Bruno Damásio, and João Ricardo Faria. "Reverse FDI in Europe: an analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal." African Development Review 26, no. 1 (2014): 160-171.
  * Harvard: Barros, C.P., Damásio, B. and Faria, J.R., 2014. Reverse FDI in Europe: an analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal. African Development Review, 26(1), pp.160-171.
  * Vancouver: Barros CP, Damásio B, Faria JR. Reverse FDI in Europe: an analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal. African Development Review. 2014 Mar;26(1):160-71.


[Link here](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1467-8268.12072?casa_token=rJTQlbu6EoIAAAAA:j55d7ECc8fknqeqAW7Qh3ktbzrfX_sYo3UmPWSnnQtraYqQ4jyk_I7l_sbvOvOUJtfwoDwfSbrYmmNw)


