---
title: "One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-02-troika
date: 2019-02-01
venue: 'Empirica'
---

Abstract: This article assesses the effectiveness of the labour market reforms implemented in Portugal as part of the Troika’s structural reform package. Using an ARDL-bounds test model to perform the econometric estimation, this investigation examines the long-run relationship between unemployment, capital accumulation and labour market variables for the 1985–2013 period. The econometric estimation suggests that capital accumulation has been the main driver of long-run unemployment, whilst labour market variables have played a minor explanatory role. These results suggest that Portuguese NAIRU is endogenous to capital accumulation and do not support the Troika’s emphasis on labor market reforms as a strategy to reduce long-term unemployment.


Cite:
  * MLA: Martins, Diogo, and Bruno Damásio. "One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal." Empirica 47.3 (2020): 495-521.
  * APA: Martins, D., & Damásio, B. (2020). One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal. Empirica, 47(3), 495-521.
  * Chicago: Martins, Diogo, and Bruno Damásio. "One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal." Empirica 47, no. 3 (2020): 495-521.
  * Harvard: Martins, D. and Damásio, B., 2020. One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal. Empirica, 47(3), pp.495-521.
  * Vancouver: Martins D, Damásio B. One Troika fits all? Job crash, pro-market structural reform and austerity-driven therapy in Portugal. Empirica. 2020 Aug;47(3):495-521.


[Link here](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10663-019-09433-w)

[Download paper here](http://lucasadoims.github.io/files/2019-02-troika.pdf)


